Finally let's finish off our talk with Front-End performance optimizations with progressive webapps.
So what is a progressive webapp Well a webapp is a Web site that allows users to interact with the web
page in many ways.
However whether it is a gay Twitter or Facebook it is inside of a browser window such as chrome Safari
Firefox a native app on the other hand is an app that is on a mobile phone like an iPhone or a Samsung
thats what native means.
It's meant to work on a native platform like a mobile phone.
So do you ever wish that web apps that live inside of browsers behave more like real lapse on your phone.
Well progressive Web apps are a new technology that's aiming to make that happen.
Just like your apps on your phone we want the user to have a similar experience when visiting the Web.
But first let's talk about the differences between the two
to create a web app.
All you need to know is some H.M. C-s us and Javascript and you're good to go.
To create a native app that is a mobile phone app you need to learn a native language like Java for
Android apps or Objective-C and swift for iOS apps.
Unlike viewing on the browser native apps have all the files they need on the user's mobile phone.
For example if he go into your phone and go through your apps you can see how big some of those phone
apps are.
By looking at their file size and that's because unlike the server client relationship that a web app
has what has to go through request M-L and finally get the CSSA and the javascript files.
You can download native apps and have them on your phone.
The files just living on your phone.
The only thing you can really do with a web app is maybe bookmark a Web site.
Additionally native apps can send you push notifications.
They can even work off line and you're never going to get a blank screen.
For example
if you go to get hub and I have my Wi-Fi turned off if I refresh the page while I get this little dinosaur
icon saying there's no internet connection.
You've never seen that on a Native up happy because native apps are built to work off line.
Maybe not have full functionality off line but still work and now get a blank screen.
Finally with mobile apps or native apps you can find them to download.
In places like the App Store or the Google Play store you can't really do that with web apps.
Oh and I almost forgot with native apps.
They also have access to the phone hardware like the camera geo location.
Push notifications.
All right.
I hope you get the point.
Right now our mobile apps and our web apps are not really the same thing.
And mobile apps tend to work nicer than web apps on phones.
And this is where progressive Web apps come in.
You can now make web apps behave like native apps.
What do I mean well with progressive Web apps you can make your browser not have that top RL bar.
So that the entire app covers the screen and looks like a mobile app.
You can download them on your phone and have a app icon on your phone home screen.
They can work online.
They can sent push notifications on your phone.
And they also work a lot faster just like on phones a lot more than regular web apps because they're
designed with mobile in mind and there are a few other features of progressive Web apps.
All in a goal to make them a similar as possible to native.
So think of progressive Web apps as well apps but they behave more like native apps.
Don't worry it's a lot easier to implement than you think.
Like existing web apps they'll be hosted directly on their associated website developers can update
them directly on their web server by deploying or updating their get hub if it's hosted on get help
pages without submitting those updates to several different app stores because to update an app on the
iOS App Store you have to submit those changes and get those approved by Apple with a progressive Web
app.
You don't really need to do that.
And the best part of all that same app is going to run on all browser platforms.
That is if the phone is using Safari is going to work on safari.
Going to work on Firefox is going to work on Chrome.
And you don't have to worry about it being built for Android or iOS or even Windows right.
So what's the goal of all of this.
Well obviously better user experience faster Web sites.
And we already know how important this is from our previous videos.
Many people are really excited about progressive Web apps and although it's fairly new it's catching
on fast and Bestival with a new team of 5 API.
We're starting to get more and more access to foreign hardware that only native apps used to have.
If you go to what we can do that today Web site it shows you what you can do and a Web platform.
When you're building your app and you see that we can do notifications we can do audio and video capture.
We can do geo location so we're certain to get more and more power with our web apps.
Now here's an interesting thing.
Who do you think came up with the idea of progressive webapps give up.
It was Google.
Now who do you think is the slowest in supporting this idea of progressive Web apps.
Give up it's Apple because the goal is to make web feel like an app and you can look at the companies
and their interests and see why they would have this stance.
Google for example has a big market share in the web.
They're interested in their Chrome browser and their Google com search results to be used as often as
possible.
While Apple has their closed ecosystem of the App Store and if you want to build an app wall you have
to build it the way that Apple wants it using Objective-C or swift and using their developer platform
X code and submitting to their app store to have an app.
So Apple is interested in keeping their dominance of apps on their phones while Google is interested
in keeping their dominance on the web.
And it's always good to think about these things when looking at technologies developed by these big
companies it's often usually out of self-interest.
I know that sounds pessimistic but it is true although it benefits us.
It's good to understand the overarching goals Facebook for example has something called re-act native.
And just like we learned react react native is a way to build apps that work just like native apps.
So using reality can now build iOS and Android apps all with pretty much 90 percent of the code being
shared between those two platforms.
Anyway let's get back on track now.
There is a constant battle with this as Chrome has adopted this progressive Web app stance and apple
that has the Safari browser has been really lagging in adopting these technologies.
But anyway this is a cost them battle.
And as with everything that I've mentioned so far we don't want to pick a technology just because it's
hip and cool and it's the latest craze.
We want to make sure that it adds value to our project.
Now progressive Web apps are going to evolve over time but the main takeaway is this progressive Web
apps do enhance the experience of our users even if it isn't everyone.
Like people with us if it is easy to implement then we should consider it though because adding it to
our project even if it helps just a few people it still is beneficial.
And as time progresses hopefully more and more adoption happens.
And this is exactly why create re-act app already comes preset with progressive Web app capabilities.
You heard me right.
They do it out of the box for you.
Once again create re-act app helps out a ton here with a little few tweaks that I'm going to show you
in the upcoming August sizes.
We can have a progressive webapp pretty fast.
So I argue that because it is so easy it's already set up in Korea re-act app.
We should implement progressive webapps abilities because it makes the user experience better.
And definitely improved performance
but how can we make our robo friends up into a progressive Web app.
I mean remember that's what Bruno asked us to do.
Luckily for us Google has created something called lighthouse and this lighthouse is a plug in a chrome
plug in that we can just install.
You can see it over here already have it installed and run it on any Web site and tell us some performance
metrics and also how close we are to that progressive Web app and I half year for us our rebel friends
up with redox already set up and I have a link to the website because while we need an actual You are
out.
So if I click on this I can go to Lighthouse plug in and say generate report and this is going to generate
for us different reports.
Its going to turn the app off line and then online again to see if it has any offline capabilities its
going to check if it has any other features that a progressive Web app will have.
And we get a report back and as you can see it gives us a few extra things like Osseo best practices
accessibility which we're going to talk about and also performance but the number that we're interested
in is this progressive Whitelock number.
We see that although we haven't done anything we have 82 percent.
I mean it's green that's good right.
If we scroll down to the progressive war map it even tells you what we can do to fix this.
Now how do we have 82 percent when we haven't done anything.
Well like I said before create re-act app sets everything for us so that it's easy to implement.
And don't worry we're going to go through this and get this to 100 percent in our exercise for now.
That's enough talking for me.
I'll see you in the next video.
Bye bye.